In this video you're going to get to make really cool looking curvy lines snake things and not really
sure what exactly to call this based on trigonometric functions that you already know.
So what you do is implement two trig functions X EQUALS COSINE of theta.
Times are 1 and Y equals sign of theta.
Times are two where our 1 and our 2 are random numbers that are drawn from a uniform distribution between
0 and 1.
Now essentially what this is doing what these R's are doing is changing the speed of the cosine so they
will make the cosine or the sine go faster or slower.
And when you plot x by y you're going to get these interesting looking functions.
Now every time you run it it's going to be different because these two values will be different from
each other and randomly selected.
Okay so then there's a couple of additional points that you want to do.
So first of all you can see that I am displaying r1 and r2 only to two significant digits so point 3
6 and point 6 8.
Now as I mentioned your numbers will differ but you want to see if you can get this to display with
only two numbers after the decimal point.
Secondly a bit of an extra coding challenge is to figure out how to plot this line so that the beginning
and end points are actually drawn to each other.
So you want to add another point to these functions to make sure that there is a line that goes from
here to here.
Now I left it out in this blob because honestly I'm not really sure that the picture looks better with
that connecting line.
I think it looks a little bit nicer without the connecting line but it's a nice challenge in Python
programming to get this line to connect to this line.
So the start and end of these functions to connect to each other.
As I frequently do with the more challenging aspects of these coding exercises I'm about to give you
a hint it's the hint is the method or the function that you use to get this to work.
So if you don't want a hint if you want to figure out how to make this line yourself now is your opportunity
to pause the video.
Otherwise here is the hint you want to use something called N.P. dot append.
So it's a function in the NUM pi module called append and I'm not going to tell you exactly how to use
it but at least that's the hint to get you started.
All right.
So now I will switch to Python and show you how I solved this exercise.
So let's see.
Let's start by creating the angles so let's call this.
I'll call this a T for theta.
So that's going to be linearly spaced numbers and I didn't actually tell you what range you should use
but I'm going to use 8 pi so eight times pi and let's go for a thousand numbers in between 0 and 8 pi
to give us a nice resolution.
All right.
So then we need are 1 equals none pi not random that Rand and then are 2 also equals known pi to random
that Rand.
Now you could have also done this in a slightly different way.
You could set R equals none pi not random Rand 2 and then later on you would use r 0 0 and r 1.
So either way you want to do it is fine.
Now we define x and y.
So X was cosine of our 1 times the variable t and then Y equals and Peter cosine of our two times T.
Now before I get started with the actual plotting I want to show you what this is going to look like.
So t come X and T comma Y and then peel T dot show so you can see that the sine and cosine have different
speeds and that comes from these different values of our 1 and R2.
So when I run this multiple times you see sometimes the speed is almost match.
This is a pretty interesting one where the blue line is actually slightly slightly faster than the orange
line and actually looking at this plot.
Now I see that this is a typo.
This should be sine.
Okay.
Now you see in fact they may get aligned here.
It just happens by chance.
Okay so that looks interesting but in fact the goal is to plot x by y like this.
And now we're starting to get a really interesting looking curve.
So let's see.
Let me do a few more things I'm going to make this axis square.
I'm going to force the limits to go from let's say minus one point one to one point one on the X domain
and for the Y it's gonna be one point one also to or minus one point one two plus one point one.
Okay.
And then let's see I want this to be a black line and then I want the Axis off so appeal to the Axis.
All right.
This is looking pretty cool.
I think this looks really neat huh.
That's a funny one.
So to understand these a little bit better.
This one also looks pretty neat to interpret these functions a little bit better.
It's useful to have the title on here so P.L. to the title and I'm going to say are 1 equals percent
s and then R comma 2 equals percent s.
So then we replace these with R 1 and R two.
Okay.
So now there's two things that I need to change first of all.
Look how many decimal points this goes out to.
So we need to show only the first two numbers after the decimal point and the way that I'm going to
implement that is by using the round function.
Now if you just round like this if you just round these numbers this is actually not going to give you
a very interesting result because all of these numbers.
So every possible number is basically just gone around 2 0 or 1.
So but you can give the round function an optional second input which tells you the precision of the
rounding.
So it tells you how many numbers after the decimal point to round two.
So this is how I solved that part of the problem.
And then I want to get the one to be in a subscript so the one to be in appearing below the R.
Now the way to do that is by using LaTeX coding but it turns out you don't actually need to make the
entire title in latex.
We only need this here to be latex.
So the underscore to indicate a subscript and then the number after the subscript.
So we just embed these two characters here the underscore and the number inside dollar signs and that
tells Python to interpret these two characters as latex code.
Okay.
Very nice.
So let's keep running this until we get something that's pretty interesting.
So remember that if you just take out.
So let me see.
I'm gonna force both our 1 and our 2 to be 1.
And now we just get the unit circle.
So that means that when both of these numbers when both of these are coefficients are close to each
other we're going to get a a line that looks more like a circle.
Let me see.
I am just looking for some time when it randomly shows these two numbers to be pretty similar to each
other.
Okay so here you go these two numbers are fairly similar to each other and you can kind of see that
there is a circle that's wanting to happen.
And anyway there's lots of other things you can play with.
Let's make this.
How about 18 pi.
So it goes out for longer.
Oh here's a pretty interesting case.
Here we see that the sign part is really large.
Has a close to full frequency and the cosine part has a very low frequency.
So then you see that this function looks an awful lot like a sine wave.
Mm hmm.
Now this is starting to look really really pretty.
This looks like a pattern you could weave into a quilt or something and now the very last thing that
I want to do here is show you how to connect the start line to the end line.
So we want a line that will go from the starting point to the ending point.
Now the trick to getting this to work is to add a new data point to the very end of vector x and the
very end vector Y.
And we want that new data point to be the same as the first data point.
So that means we're going to get basically a full circle it's going to go from the last data point to
the first data point.
And so the way that we can do this is by specifying x equals.
Now what you want to do is something like say the last element plus one.
But this is not really legal code in Python.
So instead what we do is we append so we replace vector x with append and then we want to append vector
x with the first element in vector X..
So now vector X is going to be one element longer than it previously was.
And then obviously we do the same thing with vector Y.
And actually you know even just to give you a sense of the lengths here I'm going to comment this out
so I'm going to replace x with the appended version of X and not change y and let's see what happens.
So we get an error and let's see what the error says X and Y must have the same first mention but their
shapes differ.
So X is 1001 points long and Y is only 1000 points long.
Okay so uncommon that line and now I guess here you don't really notice it so much let's try another
time point.
Now it happens to be that these cases that I'm doing.
Okay.
Here you go now.
So here you see what I'm talking about that I don't actually think it improves the graphic.
I don't think it makes this thing look nicer to have the line the straight line going from the end point
to the beginning point.
However you know I wanted to include this just to give you a sense of how to do that and introduce you
to this append function in the NUM pi module.
Anyway there is a lot more that you could do to continue playing with this kind of code and in general
exploring the connection between math in particular here trigonometry and art or at least kind of you
know interesting looking things.